- [Instructor] Using a container orchestration platform
is another best practice
commonly paired with the GitOps approach.
When organizations embrace containers,
they quickly realize that things get complicated real quick.
This is because the disposable nature of containers
makes them more challenging to operate at any sort of scale.
They're meant to spin up and down
whenever the situation calls for it.
And with microservice architectures,
systems are composed of many services running in containers.
So there's typically a lot of them to manage.
It gets messy and the complexity increases rapidly
as the workload grows
and the underlying footprint of host machines
expands to handle the number of containers.
Traditional practices that we might have used
to administer systems running on virtual machines
just don't work well for containers.
Luckily, this problem was recognized
by early adopters of containers, such as Google,
who built an open source,
their own container orchestration platform named Kubernetes.
Orchestrators like Kubernetes
are used to manage container operations
over a series of worker nodes that run containers
in another packaging format known as a pod.
Let's go a level or two deeper with Kubernetes.
It with the control plane
that controls the operations of the cluster.
Within the control plane, there's four major components.
An API that accepts commands to change the cluster state.
A data store named etcd
that stores the state of the cluster.
A scheduler that determines where to place pods.
And a controller that monitors cluster state,
and adjusts it for any deviations.
To manage the worker nodes,
the control plane interacts with an agent known as a kubelet
that runs on each worker node in the cluster.
The kubelet is responsible for getting pods
running on the cluster as instructed by the control plane.
Pods are just a basic building block for Kubernetes.
There are other objects within Kubernetes
that are used to represent the desired state of the cluster.
Each of these objects can be described
using a piece of configuration known as a spec.
Here's an example of a spec
you'll find within the working files stored on GitHub.
This spec describes a deployment object
that indicates three replicas of a pod
containing the GitOps foundation's container
should be made available within the cluster.
Object specs for Kubernetes can be stored
in files known as manifests.
Manifests can use either a YAML or JSON format
to describe the object.
You'll mostly see these written in YAML.
Cloud native applications deployed on top of Kubernetes
are a perfect fit for GitOps.
As you saw, Kubernetes objects
can be managed almost entirely from declarative manifests.
So, we can use them
to store the desired state of our cluster within Git.
Within Kubernetes,
there's also native support for convergence.
So it stores these specs and has a mechanism
to make sure the resources are deployed on the cluster.
By introducing an operator into the Kubernetes cluster
for continuous delivery,
developers only need to interact with Git
to manage deployment of these resources,
making Git the single source of truth.
Since changes are automatically applied
in the cluster by the operator,
the workflow becomes simplified for developers.
And it allows them to deliver changes faster
without sacrificing the stability of their system.
GitOps is much harder without a platform like Kubernetes
that can quickly spin up these workloads
based upon a declarative configuration.
And that's why popular GitOps tools target the platform.
So that's the big takeaway.
The question is frequently asked
if Kubernetes is necessary for GitOps.
Technically, no.
Kubernetes isn't requirement for GitOps.
But it fits so well within the operational model
that most of today's GitOps implementations
are centered around it.